Add staking guides (#166)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/docs-user/staking/stake-unstake.mdx

---
title: How to stake LSK
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /user/staking/stake-unstake
description: 'How to stake and un-stake LSK tokens'
keywords:
  [
    'Lisk',
    'Lisk staking',
    'staking',
    'unstaking',
    'staking LSK',
  ]
---
import form from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/stake-1.png';
import amount from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/amount.png';
import duration from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/duration.png';
import approve from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/approve-small.png';
import stake from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/stake.png';
import staked from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/staked.png';
import unstake from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/unstake.png';
import unstakePrompt from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/unstake-prompt.png';
import claimApprove from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/claim-approve.png';

# How to stake LSK

<div className="imageCaption">

>   <p>Image1: _Staking at the Lisk Portal_</p>

Reviewer: I think we can make the images look even better by adjusting the styling, especially the borders. I suggest we try using the [figcaption tag](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_figcaption.asp) for the captions and remove the borders. This will give all the images a consistent and synced-up look.
```suggestion
  <p>Image 1: _Staking at the Lisk Portal_</p>
```

  <a href="https://portal.lisk.com/staking/stake" target="_blank"><img src={form} /></a>
</div>

## How to stake your LSK tokens

:::info
You can stake any amount of LSK tokens, starting from a minimum of 0.01 LSK
:::

1. **Go to the `Stake Tokens` page** on the Lisk Portal: <br />
    → https://portal.lisk.com/staking/stake ← 
2. **Connect your Lisk wallet** to the Lisk Portal, if you haven't already.
3. **Select the network you want to stake on.** 
    This should be either `Lisk` or `Lisk Sepolia Testnet`.
4. Now fill out the form as described in the following steps to complete the staking process.
    **Enter the amount of LSK you wish to stake.** <br />
    <img src={amount} /><br />

>     You may use the %-Buttons below to conveniently stake a certain percentage of your total LSK balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You may use the `%` buttons above to conveniently stake a certain percentage of your total LSK balance.
```

5. **Set the locking period.** <br />
    <img src={duration} /><br />
    By setting the locking period, you define the duration for which your LSK tokens will be staked.
    As long as the tokens are staked, they are locked for any other usage.
6. **Approve the staking by clicking the `Approve` button.** <br />
    <img src={approve} width="80%"/><br />
    Before you can stake your LSK tokens, you need to approve the spending cap for the Staking contract in your wallet.
7. **Create the locking position by clicking the `Stake` button.**<br />
    <img src={stake} width="80%"/><br />
    To complete the staking process, create the locking position with the amount and period defined in the previous steps, by approving the transaction in your wallet.

That's it! 🎉 You have now successfully staked your LSK tokens.

<div className="imageCaption">
  <p>_Image2: Staking confirmation message_</p>
  <img src={staked}  alt="Confirmation" width="50%"/>

> </div>

Reviewer: Same comment as above regarding the styling!

In order to use your voting power to participate in the decentralized governance of Lisk, make sure to [Delegate your voting power](/governance/delegation) to yourself or a delegate of your choice.

After at least one day of staking, you should see the accumulated amount of [staking rewards](overview#staking-rewards) that you are eligible for until then.
Check out the next section to learn how to claim your rewards.

## How to claim staking rewards

Staking rewards can be claimed at any time.
When claiming, you can choose to either receive the rewards or re-stake them, increasing your locked amount and thereby boosting your voting power in governance.

1. **Go to the `Claim` tab of the `Stake Tokens` page** on the Lisk Portal:<br />
    → https://portal.lisk.com/staking/claim ← <br />
     **Connect your Lisk wallet** to the Lisk Portal, if you haven't already.
2. **Select the network you want to stake on.** 
    This should be either `Lisk` or `Lisk Sepolia Testnet`.
3. **Click the `Claim Rewards` button.**

> 4. **Verify your rewards ready to be claimed.**<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Verify your rewards, ready to be claimed.**<br />
```

---
title: How to stake LSK
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /user/stake-unstake
description: 'How to stake and un-stake LSK tokens'
keywords:
  [
    'Lisk',
    'Lisk staking',
    'staking',
    'unstaking',
    'staking LSK',
  ]
---
import form from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/stake-1.png';
import amount from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/amount.png';
import duration from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/duration.png';
import approve from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/approve-small.png';
import stake from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/stake.png';
import staked from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/staked.png';
import claim from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/claim-ui.png';
import claimApprove from '../../../static/img/docs/staking/claim-approve.png';

> <div className="imageCaption">

Reviewer 2: I would suggest moving the image a bit below, so that the page starts with text and then the image is in the appropriate place.

Reviewer 2: Example, after step 3?

Author: this image shall give a general overview of the staking UI, for the detailed steps, I added specific images that zoom in on the relevant area, so i would prefer leaving the image at the beginning

Reviewer 2: Ok. It would be nice if you could add screenshot from Mainnet. I can provide you screenshots from my testing account if you don't want to share personal info.

As long as the tokens are staked, they are locked for any other usage.
6. **Approve the staking by clicking the `Approve` button.** <img src={approve} />
  Before you can stake your LSK tokens, you need to approve the spending cap for the Staking contract in your wallet.
7. **Create the locking position by clicking the `Stake` button.** <img src={stake} />
  To complete the staking process, create the locking position with the amount and period defined in the previous steps, by approving the transaction in your wallet.

That's it! 🎉 You have now successfully staked your LSK tokens.

<div className="imageCaption">
  <p>_Image2: Staking confirmation message_</p>
  <img src={staked}  alt="Confirmation" width="50%"/>
</div>

As you can see on your [Staking Dashboard](https://portal.lisk.com/staking/dashboard), you receive voting power in the Lisk DAO and staking rewards, proportional to your staked amount and locking duration.

In order to use your voting power to participate in the decentralized governance of Lisk, make sure to [Delegate your voting power](/governance/delegation) to yourself or a delegate of your choice.

> After at least one day of staking, you should see an accumulated amount of your [staking rewards](staking#staking-rewards) you received until then.

Reviewer 2: received --> are eligible for

The point is rewards are not automatically sent to user.

Check out the next section to learn how to claim your rewards.

## How to claim staking rewards

Staking rewards can be claimed at any time.
When claiming, you can choose to either receive the rewards or re-stake them, increasing your locked amount and thereby boosting your voting power in governance.

1. **Go to the `Stake Tokens` page** on the Lisk Portal:<br />
  → https://portal.lisk.com/staking/stake ← 

> 2. **Click on the `Claim` tab.**

Reviewer 2: Screenshot?

Author: I would only like screenshots where really necessary, but i updated the link to go directly to the correct tab, so there should be no confusion here.

> 3. **Connect your Lisk wallet** to the Lisk Portal, if you haven't already.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add this at step 2?

4. **Select the network you want to stake on.** 
  This should be either `Lisk` or `Lisk Sepolia Testnet`.
5. **Click the `Claim Rewards` button.**
6. **Verify your rewards ready to be claimed.**<br />
  <img src={claimApprove} width="60%"/>
7. **Click the `Claim Rewards` button.**
8. **Approve the transaction in your wallet** to complete the claiming process.

## How to unstake your LSK tokens

If you wish to unstqke your staked LSK in order to use them for different purposes, please follow this process:

:::caution
LSK tokens can only be unstaked, if the locking period of the staked tokens has expired.
:::

1. **Go to the `Stake Tokens` page** on the Lisk Portal: <br /> 
  → https://portal.lisk.com/staking/stake ← 

> 2. **Click on the `Unstake` tab.**

Reviewer 2: Screenshot?

Author: I would only like screenshots where really necessary, but i updated the link to go directly to the correct tab, so there should be no confusion here.

> 3. **Connect your Lisk wallet** to the Lisk Portal, if you haven't already.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add this on step 2?

In order to use your voting power to participate in the decentralized governance of Lisk, make sure to [Delegate your voting power](/governance/delegation) to yourself or a delegate of your choice.

> After at least one day of staking, you should see an accumulated amount of your [staking rewards](staking#staking-rewards) you are eligible for until then.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After at least one day of staking, you should see the accumulated amount of [staking rewards](staking#staking-rewards) that you are eligible for until then.
```

Reviewer 2: Optional, just looked a bit strange formulation.
